Add documentation for aggregate functions (#701)
PostgREST/postgrest-docs: docs/references/api/aggregate_functions.rst

Casting Aggregates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When applying an aggregate function to a column, you are able to cast both the value of the input column *and* the value of the output of the aggregate function. In both cases, the syntax works as described in :ref:`casting_columns`, with the only difference being the placement of the cast.

For instance, imagine that the ``amount`` column from the previous examples has the type ``text``. If you wanted to get the sum of this column, it would not be possible without first casting the value of the input column, as ``sum()`` does not support an input argument with the type ``text``. In this instance, you would need to cast the value of just the input column. Casting the the value of the input column is the exact same as a cast on any other column in PostgREST:

.. tabs::

  .. code-tab:: http

>     GET /orders?select=amount::numeric.sum() HTTP/1.1

Reviewer: Really useful considering we can't do a `sum()` over a json type.

When embedding a resource, you can apply aggregate functions to columns from the associated resource to perform aggregations within the context of an embedded resource.

Continuing with the example relationship between ``orders`` and ``customers`` from the previous section, imagine that you want to fetch the ``name``, ``city``, and ``state`` of all customers, along with the sum of their daily order amounts. This can be done in the following way:

.. tabs::

  .. code-tab:: http

    GET /customers?select=name,city,state,orders(amount.sum(),order_date) HTTP/1.1

  .. code-tab:: bash Curl

    curl "http://localhost:3000/customers?select=name,city,state,orders(amount.sum(),order_date)"

TODO: Add results.

In this example, the ``amount`` column is summed and grouped by the ``order_date`` *within* the context of the embedded resource. That is, the ``name``, ``city``, and ``state`` from the ``customers`` table have no bearing on the aggregation performed in the context of the ``orders`` association; instead, the ``orders`` table is implicitly grouped by customer.

Using Columns from a Spread Resource
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When you :ref:`spread an embedded resource <spread_embed>`, the columns from the embedded resource that has been spread are treated as if they were columns of the top-level resource, both when using them as grouping columns and when applying aggregate functions to them.

Author: @steve-chavez what is the proper terminology here for: "the embedded resource that has been spread"? would it be "the spreaded resource" or something else? finding it a bit awkward in this section

Author: thanks!

For instance, assume you want to sum the ``amount`` column from the ``orders`` table, using the ``city`` and ``state`` columns from the ``customers`` table as grouping columns. To achieve this, you may select these two columns from the ``customers`` table and spread them; they will then be used as grouping columns:

.. tabs::

  .. code-tab:: http

    GET /orders?select=amount.sum(),...customers(city,state) HTTP/1.1

  .. code-tab:: bash Curl

    curl "http://localhost:3000/orders?select=amount.sum(),...customers(city,state)

TODO: Add result.

Now imagine that the ``customers`` table has a ``joined_date`` column that represents the date that the customer joined the platform. You want to get the oldest and youngest customer by join date for every distinct order date. This can be expressed as follows:

.. tabs::

  .. code-tab:: http

    GET /orders?select=order_date,...customers(joined_date.max(),joined_date.min()) HTTP/1.1

  .. code-tab:: bash Curl

    curl "http://localhost:3000/orders?select=order_date,...customers(joined_date.max(),joined_date.min())

> As columns from a resource that has been spread are treated as if they were columns from the top-level resource, the ``max()`` and ``min()`` are applied *within* the context of the top-level, rather than within the context of the embedded resource, as in the previous section.

Reviewer: Shortening as per the discussion above
```suggestion
As columns from a spreaded resource are treated as if they were columns from the top-level resource, the ``max()`` and ``min()`` are applied *within* the context of the top-level, rather than within the context of the embedded resource, as in the previous section.
```

To group by other columns, you simply add those columns to the ``select`` parameter. For instance:

.. tabs::

  .. code-tab:: http

    GET /orders?select=amount.sum(),amount.avg(),order_date HTTP/1.1

  .. code-tab:: bash Curl

    curl "http://localhost:3000/orders?select=amount.sum(),amount.avg(),order_date"

This will return a row for each unique value in the ``order_date`` column, with the sum and average of the ``amount`` column for all rows that share the same ``order_date``:

.. code-block:: json
  [
    {
      "sum": 1234.56,
      "avg": 123.45,
      "order_date": "2023-01-01"
    },
    {
      "sum": 2345.67,
      "avg": 234.56,
      "order_date": "2023-01-02"
    }
  ]

.. note::
  Aggregate functions work alongside other PostgREST features, like :ref:`h_filter`, :ref:`json_columns`, and :ref:`ordering`. Please note at this time aggregate functions are not compatible with :ref:`domain_reps`. Additionally, PostgreSQL's ``HAVING`` clause and ordering by aggregated columns are not yet supported.

The Case of ``count()``
===========================

> .. note::

Author: @steve-chavez I added this note. not sure if you agree with it, so let me know if you think it should be removed/modified.

Reviewer: Fully agree. Though there are lots of `count` users, not something we can break anytime soon. Still it's good to discourage its use.
